Guides/Chunked.md, before:

# Chunked

[[Source](https://github.com/apple/swift-algorithms/blob/main/Sources/Algorithms/Chunked.swift) | 
 [Tests](https://github.com/apple/swift-algorithms/blob/main/Tests/SwiftAlgorithmsTests/ChunkedTests.swift)]

Break a collection into subsequences where consecutive elements pass a binary
predicate, or where all elements in each chunk project to the same value.

Also includes a `chunks(ofCount:)` that breaks a collection into subsequences 
of a given `count`.

There are two variations of the `chunked` method: `chunked(by:)` and
`chunked(on:)`. `chunked(by:)` uses a binary predicate to test consecutive
elements, separating chunks where the predicate returns `false`. For example,
you can chunk a collection into ascending sequences using this method:

```swift
let numbers = [10, 20, 30, 10, 40, 40, 10, 20]
let chunks = numbers.chunked(by: { $0 <= $1 })
// [[10, 20, 30], [10, 40, 40], [10, 20]]
```

The `chunked(on:)` method, by contrast, takes a projection of each element and
separates chunks where the projection of two consecutive elements is not equal.
The result includes both the projected value and the subsequence that groups
elements with that projected value:

```swift
let names = ["David", "Kyle", "Karoy", "Nate"]
let chunks = names.chunked(on: \.first!)
// [("D", ["David"]), ("K", ["Kyle", "Karoy"]), ("N", ["Nate"])] 
```

The `chunks(ofCount:)` method takes a `count` parameter (greater than zero)
and separates the collection into chunks of this given count. If the `count`
parameter is evenly divided by the count of the base `Collection`, all the
chunks will have a count equal to the parameter. Otherwise, the last chunk will
contain the remaining elements.
 
```swift
let names = ["David", "Kyle", "Karoy", "Nate"]
let evenly = names.chunks(ofCount: 2)
// equivalent to [["David", "Kyle"], ["Karoy", "Nate"]] 

let remaining = names.chunks(ofCount: 3)
// equivalent to [["David", "Kyle", "Karoy"], ["Nate"]]
```

The `chunks(ofCount:)` is the subject of an [existing SE proposal][proposal].

When "chunking" a collection, the entire collection is included in the result,
unlike the `split` family of methods, where separators are dropped.
Joining the result of a chunking method call recreates the original collection.

```swift
c.elementsEqual(c.chunked(...).joined())
// true
```

[proposal]: https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/pull/935

## Detailed Design

The two methods are added as extension to `Collection`, with two matching
versions that return a lazy wrapper added to `LazyCollectionProtocol`.

```swift
extension Collection {
  public func chunked(
      by belongInSameGroup: (Element, Element) -> Bool
  ) -> [SubSequence]

  public func chunked<Subject: Equatable>(
      on projection: (Element) -> Subject
  ) -> [(Subject, SubSequence)]
}

extension LazyCollectionProtocol {
  public func chunked(
      by belongInSameGroup: @escaping (Element, Element) -> Bool
  ) -> ChunkedByCollection<Elements, Element>

  public func chunked<Subject: Equatable>(
      on projection: @escaping (Element) -> Subject
  ) -> ChunkedOnCollection<Elements, Subject>
}
```

The `ChunkedByCollection` and `ChunkedOnCollection` types are bidirectional when 
the wrapped collection is bidirectional.

### Complexity

The eager methods are O(_n_), the lazy methods are O(_1_).

### Naming

The operation performed by these methods is similar to other ways of breaking a 
collection up into subsequences. In particular, the predicate-based 
`split(where:)` method looks similar to `chunked(on:)`. You can draw a 
distinction between these different operations based on the resulting 
subsequences:

- `split`: *In the standard library.* Breaks a collection into subsequences, 
removing any elements that are considered "separators". The original collection 
cannot be recovered from the result of splitting.
- `chunked`: *In this package.* Breaks a collection into subsequences, 
preserving each element in its initial ordering. Joining the resulting 
subsequences re-forms the original collection.
- `sliced`: *Not included in this package or the stdlib.* Breaks a collection 
into potentially overlapping subsequences.

### Comparison with other languages

**Ruby:** Ruby’s `Enumerable` class defines `chunk_while` and `chunk`, which map
to the proposed `chunked(by:)` and `chunked(on:)` methods.

**Rust:** Rust defines a variety of size-based `chunks` methods, but doesn’t
include any with the functionality described here.

Commit message:

Mention `chunks(ofCount:)` in the guide

Guides/Chunked.md, after:

# Chunked

[[Source](https://github.com/apple/swift-algorithms/blob/main/Sources/Algorithms/Chunked.swift) | 
 [Tests](https://github.com/apple/swift-algorithms/blob/main/Tests/SwiftAlgorithmsTests/ChunkedTests.swift)]

Break a collection into subsequences where consecutive elements pass a binary
predicate, or where all elements in each chunk project to the same value.

Also includes a `chunks(ofCount:)` that breaks a collection into subsequences 
of a given `count`.

There are two variations of the `chunked` method: `chunked(by:)` and
`chunked(on:)`. `chunked(by:)` uses a binary predicate to test consecutive
elements, separating chunks where the predicate returns `false`. For example,
you can chunk a collection into ascending sequences using this method:

```swift
let numbers = [10, 20, 30, 10, 40, 40, 10, 20]
let chunks = numbers.chunked(by: { $0 <= $1 })
// [[10, 20, 30], [10, 40, 40], [10, 20]]
```

The `chunked(on:)` method, by contrast, takes a projection of each element and
separates chunks where the projection of two consecutive elements is not equal.
The result includes both the projected value and the subsequence that groups
elements with that projected value:

```swift
let names = ["David", "Kyle", "Karoy", "Nate"]
let chunks = names.chunked(on: \.first!)
// [("D", ["David"]), ("K", ["Kyle", "Karoy"]), ("N", ["Nate"])] 
```

The `chunks(ofCount:)` method takes a `count` parameter (greater than zero)
and separates the collection into chunks of this given count. If the `count`
parameter is evenly divided by the count of the base `Collection`, all the
chunks will have a count equal to the parameter. Otherwise, the last chunk will
contain the remaining elements.
 
```swift
let names = ["David", "Kyle", "Karoy", "Nate"]
let evenly = names.chunks(ofCount: 2)
// equivalent to [["David", "Kyle"], ["Karoy", "Nate"]] 

let remaining = names.chunks(ofCount: 3)
// equivalent to [["David", "Kyle", "Karoy"], ["Nate"]]
```

The `chunks(ofCount:)` is the subject of an [existing SE proposal][proposal].

When "chunking" a collection, the entire collection is included in the result,
unlike the `split` family of methods, where separators are dropped.
Joining the result of a chunking method call recreates the original collection.

```swift
c.elementsEqual(c.chunked(...).joined())
// true
```

[proposal]: https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/pull/935

## Detailed Design

The three methods are added as extension to `Collection`. `chunked(by:)` and
`chunked(on:)` are eager by default, both with a matching version that return a
lazy wrapper added to `LazyCollectionProtocol`.

```swift
extension Collection {
  public func chunked(
      by belongInSameGroup: (Element, Element) -> Bool
  ) -> [SubSequence]

  public func chunked<Subject: Equatable>(
      on projection: (Element) -> Subject
  ) -> [(Subject, SubSequence)]
  
  public func chunks(ofCount count: Int) -> ChunksOfCountCollection<Self>
}

extension LazyCollectionProtocol {
  public func chunked(
      by belongInSameGroup: @escaping (Element, Element) -> Bool
  ) -> ChunkedByCollection<Elements, Element>

  public func chunked<Subject: Equatable>(
      on projection: @escaping (Element) -> Subject
  ) -> ChunkedOnCollection<Elements, Subject>
}
```

The `ChunkedByCollection`, `ChunkedOnCollection`, and `ChunksOfCountCollection`
types are bidirectional when the wrapped collection is bidirectional.
`ChunksOfCountCollection` also conforms to `LazySequenceProtocol` when the base
collection conforms.

### Complexity

The eager methods are O(_n_), the lazy methods are O(_1_).

### Naming

The operation performed by these methods is similar to other ways of breaking a 
collection up into subsequences. In particular, the predicate-based 
`split(where:)` method looks similar to `chunked(on:)`. You can draw a 
distinction between these different operations based on the resulting 
subsequences:

- `split`: *In the standard library.* Breaks a collection into subsequences, 
removing any elements that are considered "separators". The original collection 
cannot be recovered from the result of splitting.
- `chunked`: *In this package.* Breaks a collection into subsequences, 
preserving each element in its initial ordering. Joining the resulting 
subsequences re-forms the original collection.
- `sliced`: *Not included in this package or the stdlib.* Breaks a collection 
into potentially overlapping subsequences.

### Comparison with other languages

**Ruby:** Ruby’s `Enumerable` class defines `chunk_while` and `chunk`, which map
to the proposed `chunked(by:)` and `chunked(on:)` methods.

**Rust:** Rust defines a variety of size-based `chunks` methods, but doesn’t
include any with the functionality described here.
